README.md, before:

# SyncForge

A tool for managing software integrations and automating synchronized updates across multiple GitHub repositories using cloud coding agents (powered by Cursor Cloud Agents).

---

## Part 1: What is SyncForge?

SyncForge helps teams maintain consistency across multiple codebases by:

- Managing integrations linked to GitHub repositories
- Using an AI-powered wizard to understand update requirements
- Orchestrating Cursor Cloud Agents to implement changes automatically
- Creating pull requests across all affected repositories

### Adding Integrations

Integrations represent codebases you want to keep synchronized. Each integration links to one or more GitHub repositories.

<img width="691" height="417" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c6dc424-dab6-4e1a-96c3-3fdea27f5e8c" />

**To add an integration:**

1. Click **"Add Integration"** from the main dashboard
2. Enter a descriptive name (e.g., "JavaScript SDK", "n8n")
3. Add GitHub repository URLs:
   - Paste URLs directly, or
   - Click **"Browse repositories"** to select from your GitHub account (requires GitHub PAT)
4. Add **Integration Instructions** to guide the AI agent:
   - Describe the codebase structure and conventions
   - Note any specific update patterns or constraints
   - Link to relevant documentation

**Repository validation:**
- Public repositories are validated automatically (green checkmark)
- Private repositories require a GitHub PAT configured in Settings (amber lock icon)
- Invalid URLs are flagged with an error message

**Tip:** Good integration instructions help the AI agent make more accurate changes. Include details about the tech stack, file organization, and coding conventions.

### Using the Update Wizard

The Update Wizard guides you through defining changes that will be applied across all selected integrations.

<img width="1102" height="880" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-10 at 4 16 18 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f1eae803-5dcf-4f5a-947d-0f4f8317a517" />

**Starting the wizard:**

1. Click **"New Update"** from the main dashboard
2. The wizard opens with a chat interface and configuration panel

**Chat interface (left panel):**

- Describe the changes you want to make in natural language
- The AI assistant will ask clarifying questions to understand:
  - What functionality to add/modify
  - API changes or breaking changes
  - Testing requirements
  - Any edge cases to handle
- Continue the conversation until the AI indicates it's ready to proceed

**Attachments (right panel):**

Provide context to help the AI understand your requirements:

- **GitHub PRs**: Reference existing pull requests—diffs are automatically extracted and included as context
- **Files**: Upload documentation, specs, or example code
- **URLs**: Link to API docs, design specs, or reference implementations

**Integration selection:**

- By default, all integrations are selected
- Click integrations to toggle them on/off
- Click the gear icon to add **per-integration instructions** for this specific update
- Use per-integration instructions to handle differences between codebases

**Options:**

- **Auto Create PR**: When enabled, SyncForge automatically creates a pull request when the agent completes its work

**Finalizing:**

Once the AI indicates it's ready (the "Start Update" button becomes enabled), click it to begin the rollout.

### Monitoring a Rollout

After creating an update, SyncForge launches Cursor Cloud Agents to implement changes across your integrations. The dashboard provides real-time monitoring.

<img width="705" height="807" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bd90a064-df09-4336-9461-419669b37ee9" />

**Update card:**

Each update shows:
- Title and creation time
- Overall progress (e.g., "2 of 5 complete")
- Individual integration status

**Integration statuses:**

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Pending** | Agent not yet started |
| **Running** | Agent is actively coding |
| **Needs Review** | Agent has a question or needs input |
| **Ready to Merge** | Changes complete, PR ready |
| **Complete** | Update merged or finalized |
| **Cancelled** | Agent was stopped |

**Agent panel:**

Click an integration to expand its agent panel:

- **Update Plan**: View the full implementation guide sent to the agent
- **Conversation**: See the agent's progress and any messages
- **Branch link**: Direct link to the working branch on GitHub
- **PR link**: Link to the created pull request (if auto-create is enabled)

<img width="756" height="878" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-10 at 4 15 27 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3fefc4ca-7ae6-422a-8b10-671ed2a15cde" />

**Interacting with agents:**

- **Send follow-up messages**: Provide additional guidance or answer agent questions
- **Stop agent**: Cancel the agent if needed
- **View on Cursor**: Open the agent directly in Cursor's cloud agent interface

**Agent questions:**

When an agent needs clarification, an amber alert appears with the question. Type your response in the message input to continue the agent's work.

**Automatic polling:**

SyncForge automatically polls for updates:
- Branch creation detection
- New commits from agents
- Conversation updates

No manual refresh needed—the UI updates automatically as agents make progress.

---

## Part 2: Installation & Running

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Node.js 18+
- OpenAI API key (for the update wizard agent)
- Cursor API key (for cloud agent automation)
- GitHub Personal Access Token (for repository access and PR creation)

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create a `.env` file in the `backend/` directory:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### Running the Application

Start the backend:

```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
python application.py
```

The API runs at `http://localhost:8000`.

Start the frontend:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The UI runs at `http://localhost:5173`.

### Configuration

Configure API keys in the Settings modal within the application:

- **Cursor API Key**: Required for launching cloud agents to implement updates
- **GitHub PAT**: Required for accessing private repositories and creating PRs

---

## Part 3: Tech Stack

### Architecture

```
frontend/          React + TypeScript + Vite
backend/           FastAPI + SQLAlchemy + LangGraph
  agents/          LangGraph-based AI agents
  routes/          API endpoints
  services/        External service clients (Cursor API)
```

### Backend

- **FastAPI** - REST API framework
- **SQLAlchemy** - ORM and database management
- **LangGraph** - Agent orchestration framework
- **LangChain** - LLM integration
- **httpx** - Async HTTP client

### Frontend

- **React 18** - UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Vite** - Build tool
- **TailwindCSS** - Styling
- **React Query** - Server state management
- **Framer Motion** - Animations

### Database

SyncForge uses SQLite by default. The database file (`syncforge.db`) is created automatically in the backend directory.

**Models:**

- **Integration**: Represents a linked GitHub repository with custom instructions
- **Update**: A batch update request with implementation guide
- **UpdateIntegration**: Tracks the status of an update for each integration
- **UserSettings**: Stores API keys and user preferences

### API Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GET /api/integrations` | List all integrations |
| `POST /api/integrations` | Create an integration |
| `GET /api/updates` | List all updates |
| `POST /api/wizard/start` | Start the update wizard |
| `POST /api/wizard/chat` | Chat with the wizard agent |
| `POST /api/wizard/finalize` | Create an update from wizard session |
| `POST /api/agents/{id}/launch` | Launch a Cursor agent for an integration |
| `GET /api/agents/{id}/status` | Get agent status and conversation |

---

## Part 4: Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork locally
3. Follow the installation steps in Part 2
4. Create a new branch for your feature or fix

### Code Style

**Backend (Python):**
- Follow PEP 8 conventions
- Use type hints for function signatures
- Keep functions focused and well-documented

**Frontend (TypeScript):**
- Use functional components with hooks
- Follow the existing component patterns
- Use TypeScript types/interfaces for props and state

### Pull Request Guidelines

1. **Create focused PRs**: One feature or fix per PR
2. **Write descriptive commit messages**: Explain what and why
3. **Test your changes**: Ensure the app runs without errors
4. **Update documentation**: If your change affects usage, update the README

### Areas for Contribution

- **Bug fixes**: Check the issues for reported bugs
- **New features**: Discuss larger features in an issue first
- **Documentation**: Improve guides, add examples
- **UI/UX improvements**: Enhance the user experience

### Running Tests

```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pytest

# Frontend
cd frontend
npm run lint
```

### Questions?

Open an issue for questions or to discuss ideas before starting work.

---

## License

AGPL

Commit message:

Enhance README with target audience section: add a new section detailing who SyncForge is for, including SDK maintainers, platform teams, open source maintainers, and ecosystem managers, to clarify the tool's purpose and benefits.

README.md, after:

# SyncForge

A tool for managing software integrations and automating synchronized updates across multiple GitHub repositories using cloud coding agents (powered by Cursor Cloud Agents).

---

## Who is SyncForge for?

SyncForge is built for teams and developers who maintain **multiple codebases that need to stay in sync**:

- **SDK maintainers** shipping libraries across multiple languages (JavaScript, Python, Go, etc.)
- **Platform teams** managing client integrations that must reflect API changes
- **Open source maintainers** coordinating updates across forks or related projects
- **Ecosystem managers** distributing changes to a network of platform partners (LangChain, n8n, etc.)

If you've ever spent hours copy-pasting the same change across repositories—or worse, forgotten one, SyncForge automates that process with cloud agents that understand your codebase conventions.

---

## Part 1: What is SyncForge?

SyncForge helps teams maintain consistency across multiple codebases by:

- Managing integrations linked to GitHub repositories
- Using an update wizard to understand update requirements
- Orchestrating Cursor Cloud Agents to implement changes automatically
- Creating pull requests across all affected repositories

### Adding Integrations

Integrations represent codebases you want to keep synchronized. Each integration links to one or more GitHub repositories.

<img width="691" height="417" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9c6dc424-dab6-4e1a-96c3-3fdea27f5e8c" />

**To add an integration:**

1. Click **"Add Integration"** from the main dashboard
2. Enter a descriptive name (e.g., "JavaScript SDK", "n8n")
3. Add GitHub repository URLs:
   - Paste URLs directly, or
   - Click **"Browse repositories"** to select from your GitHub account (requires GitHub PAT)
4. Add **Integration Instructions** to guide the AI agent:
   - Describe the codebase structure and conventions
   - Note any specific update patterns or constraints
   - Link to relevant documentation

**Repository validation:**
- Public repositories are validated automatically (green checkmark)
- Private repositories require a GitHub PAT configured in Settings (amber lock icon)
- Invalid URLs are flagged with an error message

**Tip:** Good integration instructions help the AI agent make more accurate changes. Include details about the tech stack, file organization, and coding conventions.

### Using the Update Wizard

The Update Wizard guides you through defining changes that will be applied across all selected integrations.

<img width="1102" height="880" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-10 at 4 16 18 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f1eae803-5dcf-4f5a-947d-0f4f8317a517" />

**Starting the wizard:**

1. Click **"New Update"** from the main dashboard
2. The wizard opens with a chat interface and configuration panel

**Chat interface (left panel):**

- Describe the changes you want to make in natural language
- The AI assistant will ask clarifying questions to understand:
  - What functionality to add/modify
  - API changes or breaking changes
  - Testing requirements
  - Any edge cases to handle
- Continue the conversation until the AI indicates it's ready to proceed

**Attachments (right panel):**

Provide context to help the AI understand your requirements:

- **GitHub PRs**: Reference existing pull requests—diffs are automatically extracted and included as context
- **Files**: Upload documentation, specs, or example code
- **URLs**: Link to API docs, design specs, or reference implementations

**Integration selection:**

- By default, all integrations are selected
- Click integrations to toggle them on/off
- Click the gear icon to add **per-integration instructions** for this specific update
- Use per-integration instructions to handle differences between codebases

**Options:**

- **Auto Create PR**: When enabled, SyncForge automatically creates a pull request when the agent completes its work

**Finalizing:**

Once the AI indicates it's ready (the "Start Update" button becomes enabled), click it to begin the rollout.

### Monitoring a Rollout

After creating an update, SyncForge launches Cursor Cloud Agents to implement changes across your integrations. The dashboard provides real-time monitoring.

<img width="705" height="807" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bd90a064-df09-4336-9461-419669b37ee9" />

**Update card:**

Each update shows:
- Title and creation time
- Overall progress (e.g., "2 of 5 complete")
- Individual integration status

**Integration statuses:**

| Status | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| **Pending** | Agent not yet started |
| **Running** | Agent is actively coding |
| **Needs Review** | Agent has a question or needs input |
| **Ready to Merge** | Changes complete, PR ready |
| **Complete** | Update merged or finalized |
| **Cancelled** | Agent was stopped |

**Agent panel:**

Click an integration to expand its agent panel:

- **Update Plan**: View the full implementation guide sent to the agent
- **Conversation**: See the agent's progress and any messages
- **Branch link**: Direct link to the working branch on GitHub
- **PR link**: Link to the created pull request (if auto-create is enabled)

<img width="756" height="878" alt="Screenshot 2025-12-10 at 4 15 27 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3fefc4ca-7ae6-422a-8b10-671ed2a15cde" />

**Interacting with agents:**

- **Send follow-up messages**: Provide additional guidance or answer agent questions
- **Stop agent**: Cancel the agent if needed
- **View on Cursor**: Open the agent directly in Cursor's cloud agent interface

**Agent questions:**

When an agent needs clarification, an amber alert appears with the question. Type your response in the message input to continue the agent's work.

**Automatic polling:**

SyncForge automatically polls for updates:
- Branch creation detection
- New commits from agents
- Conversation updates

No manual refresh needed—the UI updates automatically as agents make progress.

---

## Part 2: Installation & Running

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11+
- Node.js 18+
- OpenAI API key (for the update wizard agent)
- Cursor API key (for cloud agent automation)
- GitHub Personal Access Token (for repository access and PR creation)

### Backend Setup

```bash
cd backend
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Create a `.env` file in the `backend/` directory:

```env
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...
```

### Frontend Setup

```bash
cd frontend
npm install
```

### Running the Application

Start the backend:

```bash
cd backend
source venv/bin/activate
python application.py
```

The API runs at `http://localhost:8000`.

Start the frontend:

```bash
cd frontend
npm run dev
```

The UI runs at `http://localhost:5173`.

### Configuration

Configure API keys in the Settings modal within the application:

- **Cursor API Key**: Required for launching cloud agents to implement updates
- **GitHub PAT**: Required for accessing private repositories and creating PRs

---

## Part 3: Tech Stack

### Architecture

```
frontend/          React + TypeScript + Vite
backend/           FastAPI + SQLAlchemy + LangGraph
  agents/          LangGraph-based AI agents
  routes/          API endpoints
  services/        External service clients (Cursor API)
```

### Backend

- **FastAPI** - REST API framework
- **SQLAlchemy** - ORM and database management
- **LangGraph** - Agent orchestration framework
- **LangChain** - LLM integration
- **httpx** - Async HTTP client

### Frontend

- **React 18** - UI framework
- **TypeScript** - Type safety
- **Vite** - Build tool
- **TailwindCSS** - Styling
- **React Query** - Server state management
- **Framer Motion** - Animations

### Database

SyncForge uses SQLite by default. The database file (`syncforge.db`) is created automatically in the backend directory.

**Models:**

- **Integration**: Represents a linked GitHub repository with custom instructions
- **Update**: A batch update request with implementation guide
- **UpdateIntegration**: Tracks the status of an update for each integration
- **UserSettings**: Stores API keys and user preferences

### API Endpoints

| Endpoint | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `GET /api/integrations` | List all integrations |
| `POST /api/integrations` | Create an integration |
| `GET /api/updates` | List all updates |
| `POST /api/wizard/start` | Start the update wizard |
| `POST /api/wizard/chat` | Chat with the wizard agent |
| `POST /api/wizard/finalize` | Create an update from wizard session |
| `POST /api/agents/{id}/launch` | Launch a Cursor agent for an integration |
| `GET /api/agents/{id}/status` | Get agent status and conversation |

---

## Part 4: Contributing

We welcome contributions! Here's how to get started.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork locally
3. Follow the installation steps in Part 2
4. Create a new branch for your feature or fix

### Code Style

**Backend (Python):**
- Follow PEP 8 conventions
- Use type hints for function signatures
- Keep functions focused and well-documented

**Frontend (TypeScript):**
- Use functional components with hooks
- Follow the existing component patterns
- Use TypeScript types/interfaces for props and state

### Pull Request Guidelines

1. **Create focused PRs**: One feature or fix per PR
2. **Write descriptive commit messages**: Explain what and why
3. **Test your changes**: Ensure the app runs without errors
4. **Update documentation**: If your change affects usage, update the README

### Areas for Contribution

- **Bug fixes**: Check the issues for reported bugs
- **New features**: Discuss larger features in an issue first
- **Documentation**: Improve guides, add examples
- **UI/UX improvements**: Enhance the user experience

### Running Tests

```bash
# Backend
cd backend
pytest

# Frontend
cd frontend
npm run lint
```

### Questions?

Open an issue for questions or to discuss ideas before starting work.

---

## License

AGPL
